**Data time:** 11:24 - 16-10-2024

**Status**: #note #youngling 

**Tags:** 

**Area**: 
# 2024-10-16 - HPC

# Undirect Networks

## k-ary n-fly Networks
Butterflies can be generalised with any ariety k>1, though it must be low for limited-degree networks
- Number of processing nodes **2N** with N = $k^n$ 
- Number of links and switches $O(N\log_{k}N)$ 
## Omega Networks
This pattern connect N nodes in the **left set** with N nodes in the **right set**. The number of stages is $\log_{2}N$, at each stage, the i-th input is connect to the j-th output such that
$$j = \begin{cases}
2 i & 0 \leq i \leq \frac{N}{2}\\ \\
\end{cases}$$
Example: this is a replication of perfect shuffling pattern at each state (three time this case).

### Deterministic routing
Omega networks do not provide **path diversity**, it use a very easy **left-to-right algorithm** 
## CLOS Networks
It is an other family of **indirect networks** with three stages:
- **input stage**
- **output stage**
- **middle stage**

**Theorem**: CLOS are **non-blocking** if $m \geq 2n -1$, where n is the number of nodes connected to input and output.

### Hierarchical CLOS
In this networks the numbers of stage must be fixed for definition, but we can increase path diversity by replacing each middle switch with a CLOS network (**Modular composition** of CLOS)

## Tree Networks
A tree structure can be used be implement an **indirect network** where endpoints are the leaves while switch units are the intermediate nodes. **Binary trees** reduce the switch degree at the expense of latency compared with **non-binary trees** 

The most important problem of the network is when the nodes rase the tree, because the connection increase when we rase. Suffer a lot for contention.

### Common Ancestor Routing
Let **R** be $A \xor B$ with A source and B destination binary identifiers.

We not solfe the problem about the high contention, to do that we can change a bit the topology in a variant called **fat tree networks**

## Fat Tree Networks
The idea is to table the connection to keep bandwidth constant at each level. The switch degree increase and became a problem

### Generalised Fat Trees
A solution of fat tree problem is to map a Fat tree topology with N leaves directly onto the switches of a k-ary n-fly network.

#### Butterflies in SMPs
Butterflies and Fat Trees can be used in large **multi-CMP SMP and-architectures** 

#### Butterflies  in NUMAs
Butterflies and Fat Trees can be used in large **multi-CMP NUMA of SMPs architectures** 

# Direct Networks

## K-ary N-mesh Networks

#### Meshes
They are n-dimensional grids with k nodes in each dimension. They interconnect $N = k^n$ nodes with a node degree of 2n.
## K-ary N-tori Networks
#### Tori
Like meshes but with wrap-around likes between edge nodes (not good for a planar surface)
### Deterministic Routing

## Other Network Topologies


# Pipeline Communications

## Cache Line Reading
- **cache line read request** form PE0 to MM
- **cache line read response**

## Streamed Communications
- Each **firmware message** can be decomposed into multiple **packets**
- Each packet is also composed of multiple **fits**
- Each flit is physically decomposed into **phits** whose width is equal to the width of the physical links in the network

## RDY-ACK Transmission
Simple **trasmission mechanism** 

### Message-based flow control

### Packet-based flow control

## Store-and-Forward Technique
Each packet must be **completely received** by an intermediate node (switch) before forwarding the packet in output. 
### Latency
Evaluation of the latency to transmit a packet with the store-and-forward technique. Assuming the RDY-ACK transmission mechanism. 

Let $\tau_{net}$ be the clock cycle length of switch units in the network, S the number of flits per packet, and $T_{tr}$ the link transmission latency.

# References