**Data time:** 09:22 - 21-10-2024

**Status**: #note #youngling 

**Tags:** 

**Area**: 
# 2024-10-21 - HPC

# Lock
A shared data structure called, lock semaphore, isa associated with a shared object. **Spin-lock** 

### Basic spin-lock
We usa a semple assembler **D-RISC** implementation of a spin-lock semaphore (Rlock)

### Spin-Lock with annotations
Using LOAD/STORE instructions with **set_indiv** and **reset_indiv** they are atomic instructions to change the indivisibility bit.

### TS Spin-Lock
Instead of LOAD/STORE with annotations, we can develop a spin-lock using the **test&set** amotic instruction. There are 3 problems:
1. We can have starvation in the code of a lock
2. How many atomic instructions execution before acquire the lock? If lock is uncontended we have 1 atomic instruction, but in other case we have a lot of traffics 
3. When do you perform the busy weating?

### TSS Spin-Lock
First we use a normal LOAD to set if value is GREEN, after use the test-and-set atomic instruction.

### Ticket-based Spin-Lock
We use two counters, **next_ticket** and **serving_ticket** 

### Array-based Spin-Lock
We use an array named slots of integers. 

- **false sharing**: a cache line is 64 bytes, if we have integer x in first 4 bytes and y in the next, x access from p1, and y from p2, every time process p1 change x che other process was notify. To resolve we should add a padding.

### List-based Spin-Lock
The idea is the lock is the pointer of the beginning of lists to a list of list of waiting processors. We need a two atomic instructions

# Event Notification
We need specific primitive for asymmetric synchronisation between processors. **wait** (for an event) and **notify** (of an event)
## Shared variables

## Inter-processor communication

# Barriers
A barrier is a syncornization mechanism where er have a group of entitis, all the entity reaching the barrier must wait unitil all entities have reached the bearrier.

## Centralised Barrier
When we create a barrier we know how many entities we have, and we have a counter. 

2. We can refine the previus implementation to make the barrier

## Combining-Tree Barrier


# References