---
Created: 2024-10-09T11:23:00
tags:
  - "#note"
Links: 
Area:
---
# 2024-10-09 - HPC

## Memory atomicity
An additional feature must be provided for the memory in multi-processors: **indivisible sequences of memory accesses** 
#### First solution
We add an additional bit (**indivisibility bit** called also **INDIV**) is associated with each request. If it is 1 once the request is accepted by memory, the other requests coming from other PE are left pending until INFIV is reset to 0.

We can use a spy-lock to check the indivisibility bit or ad atomic instruction call TSL that execute a LOAD and STORE with annotations.

## Memory technologies
The main technologies to implement **Random Access Memory (RAM)** (access an any positions of memory has same costs)
- **Dynamic RAM** (DRAM) is very chip,
	- it's made with cells that store data as a charge on **capacitors**, 
	- required periodic **refreshing** to maintain data storage, this is the major downside.
	- Typical capacity in the order of **hundreds of Gibs/ some TiBs**
	- Latency in the order of **tens/hundreds of nanoseconds**
- **Static RAM** (SRAM) cost is more higher, technology uses for small register in a processors, ora caches.
	- Use the same logic elements used in the processor micro-architecture called transistors
	- Still volatile but don'ts need periodic refresh
### DRAM Array
It's composed of a given numbers of **row lines** and **column lines**. Each elements in the matrix is a pair of transistor and capacitor. 

A **Decoder** is a circuit putting on of the output wires to one based on the input address. A decoder active one line.

The cost to read 1 byte we have three faces
1. **Pre-charge**
2. **Row activation**
3. **Column activation**

### DRAM Chips
A single **DRAMP chip** will contain multiple DRAM arrays to enable **pipelined interleaved processing** of memory requests. 

### DIMM Macro-Module 
We can place more DRAM chips in the same DIMM macro-module to further increase bandwidth. Eight DRAM chips represent a **rank**. 

**Memory bandwidth**: 
### Reading a cache line
PEs generate read/write requests to the memory an a **cache line basis**.

### Memory Controllers (MINFs)
They are on-chip units in the CMPs doing **scheduling** of memory request from the LLC cache(s)
A basic policy is **FR-FCFS** (first-ready, first-come-first-serve)

## SRAM and Caches
Cached, based on SRAM, are on-chip, faster, and less dense. No capacitor is needed, Two vertical lines bit, two transistors, and **two logical NOTs connected is a cyclic manner** 

### Asymptotic evaluation


# References