**Data time:** 10:07 - 28-05-2025

**Status**: #note #youngling 

**Tags:** 

**Area**: 
# 2025-05-28 - 3D IA

To applay backpropagation we need any DAG of differentialbe modules.

For 3D first new need to rappresent own data. Each rappresentations can have problems. In general 3D rappresentaions contains less informations compared to 2D image.

### Volumetric Reppresentation
This type of rappresentation cost a lot of memory. It's useful to create a voxel rappresentatons to use a range maps. A range maps is a tringualtiontion of depth maps.

Exist **VoxelNet** that start not from range maps but point cloud. 

The memory problem of voxel can be alleviated using Octree-based convolutional. We use oct-tree to rappresent information, and we design a neural network that work to it

### Multi-View Reppresentation
We aggregate multiple view CNN to one that will be proceded. It can be done using a rendering but it has a greet impact on the representation. 
##### Dominant Clustering
Apply the view pooling on clusters of similar views. We build a similarity graph where the similar views are connected
##### Join 3D + Multi-view network
It is a multi-view but it exploits RGBD informations

### Embedding Domain
The idea is to parameterize the 3D model on a planar domain.

### Vectors Neurons
Looking for, not invariance, but equivariance. Equivariance means if a rotate a mesh we want to see rotation of feactures. A scalar neuron is expanded to a vector ad we compose the vector to matrix

### Transformes 

# References